An operational amplifier or op-amp is simply a [[linear Integrated Circuit]] (IC) having multiple-terminals. It is a high-gain electronic voltage amplifier with a [[differential signalling|differential input]] and usually a single-ended output. Op-amps are among the most widely used electronic devices today as they are used in a vast array of consumer, industrial and scientific devices. Its basic role is to amplify and output the [[voltage]] difference between the two input pins - hence, it is operating under the umbrella of [[differential signalling]].

There are several parameter terms which need to be understood in op-amp applications:
-   **Input offset voltage:** It is the voltage that must be applied between the input terminals of an op-amp to nullify the output.
-   **Input offset current:** It is the algebraic difference between the currents into the (-) input (the inverting input) and (+) input.
-   **Input bias current:** It is the average of the currents entering into the (-) input and (+) input terminals of an op-amp.
-   **Input resistance:** It is the differential input resistance as seen at either of the input terminals with the other terminal connected to ground.
-   **Input capacitance:** It is the equivalent capacitance that can be measured at either of the input terminal with the other terminal connected to ground.
-   **Slew rate:** It is defined as the maximum rate of change of output voltage caused by a step input voltage. The slew rate improves with higher closed loop gain and DC supply voltage. It is also a function to temperature and generally decreases with an increase in temperature.