an oscillator is a [[circuit]] which accepts [[direct currnet]] and outputs an [[alternating current]]. The output frequency can range from just a couple of Hz to GHz and can be of various wave forms.

The basic principle behind the working of oscillators can be understood by analyzing the behavior of an [[LC circuit]], a serial circuit with a precharged [[capacitor]] C and an [[inductor]] L. Here, at first, the capacitor starts to discharge via the inductor, which results in the conversion of its electrical energy into the electromagnetic field, which can be stored in the inductor. Once the capacitor discharges completely, there will be no current flow in the circuit.

However, by then, the stored [[electromagnetic field]] would have generated a back-[[emf]] which results in the flow of [[current]] through the circuit in the same direction as that of before. This current flow through the circuit continues until the [[electromagnetic field]] collapses which result in the back-conversion of electromagnetic energy into electrical form, causing the cycle to repeat. However, now the capacitor would have charged with the opposite polarity, due to which one gets an oscillating waveform as the output.

The energt loss from the circuit resistance indicates that in order to obtain the oscillations which are continuous and of constant amplitude, one needs to compensate for the energy loss. Nevertheless, it is to be noted that the energy supplied should be precisely controlled and must be equal to that of the energy lost in order to obtain the oscillations with constant amplitude.